this is the project created from the OP stackoverlow post about comparing data. Iam Nooblord828, 
Unedumacated Engineer is my Senior design partner we are 2 out of 5 in our senior design team. we are all educating mostly in hardware design so the software aspect of this project is a stretch for us.

below is hte "answer" i gave to support OP's post. 

Adding my comment as an answer. Iam supporting this project with OP. We are designing a software controlled irrigation controller that collects flow data in specific watering zones. We are implementing an arduino as a device Driver and a raspberry pi as a single board computer.

To provide off-site remote control our intention is to build a “website “ that can take user input and and command our device remotely.

The hardware is 98% in place with basic functionality.

We are driving the Arduino pins directly with pyfirmata.

This post is about the sensor data collection so I will stick with that portion of our project.

The intention is to only collect data while the device is on. We want to establish a nominal flow value when we turn the device on. Ie engaging a solenoid valve to allow water to flow. When solenoid is on sensors will be on collecting flow data.

Based off of an established nominal flow value we want to “detect” when our flow value gets above or below a specific nominal value with adjustable tolerance's.

We want to trigger a warning to the user when the flow is out of the nominal range.

I assume a bare bones version of this would be to send an email to the user.

We can take that a step further by turning off the solenoid ( pin 4 on the arduino ) when the flow drops or rises into a “critical” range.

For basic functionality we need to load incoming serial data into the Django data base, write logic to compare incoming ( maybe an average ) serial data. Send a warning to user and/or drive arduino pin off or issue an interrupt to the device.

If we can at least get a warning to user, data uploaded and accesible in Django. That would be ideal. I realize driving the arduino will be it’s own battle. Since typically arduinos need a script loaded onto them I am thinking of having “modes” that get uploaded ie an off mode and normal run mode.

The idea is to run this device or 30 mins to an hour at a time collecting data every second.

Eventually we are going to drive the device with on user described times and days.

We have been working on this from both the far device driver end all the way to the user input side. We are getting stuck in between.

Summary:

Arduino is usb connected to desktop ( in place of the pi for now)

Driving arduino with pyfirmata currently ( this cuts arduino IDE out )

We need to get serial data into Django data base.

Logic code to compare data to threshold value.

Send warning to user ( email or http response) email makes since because the user is not going to have the site open waiting for a http response.

Hope this helps
